last time we saw the old 350 rallye
engine Nick was just about ready to move
the freshly rebuilt small-block over to
his dyno room for final testing now we
stop back in for an update after he
spent his whole friday working with the golden v8
we finished putting the whole
engine together and this morning we ended up putting it
on the dyno and then we ran
for 20 minutes to  break  in the
camshaft get all the testing will check
for a vacuum leaks oil leaks, everything
went fine then my customer came in then we
said okay let's that's the for horse power
and torque and we started getting HP
like 350 360 370 but we're far away
from 400 but from the factory this thing
did 310 horsepower and there's not many
modifications on this motor we
maybe brought the compression up a little
bit but a little cam we did some port work
and that's about it but we're really
looking for 400 HP, so we tried
everything we can all day now after a
Now, after a long friday spent  working on the engine.
we find Nick and the 350 still in the
dyno past closing time
he's tried a big double pumper carb he experimented with
different spacers bolted on bigger
headers but kept falling just short of
his clients goal. and we're stuck with
391 horsepower and now my customer left
the dyno room
I guess we're giving up on it and that's
it but i have the customer bringing the
intake manifold the original piece
because here we got the aluminum one
from the Edlebrock I needed a fitting
so I can continue putting the fittings on
their engine.  he brought it in
and what a surprise,  i look at this  ...
and i'm impressed i realized that this
intake manifold seems a little bit
different from the Edelbrock. the
carb seems to be sitting a little bit
higher the runners are a little bit
wider so I said maybe this one could
make the extra horsepower we're looking fir
so now i was thinking like okay let's
try on the motor, so I called my
customer and asked what do you think it
was Nick, whatever it takes to make
400 HP let's give it a shot
we've done everything we can to get 400
horsepower but after seeing that intake
manifold , hmm.. it looks impressive
it looks like it might do the job
I might get ten HP out of it .. here it
is friday night everybody's gone home
clients and all and now i'm curious i'm
gonna remove this is intake manifold here
tonight just to see what we got
Nick's passion for power has kept him working
late to plenty of times but he's also
got plenty of good people who lend a
hand tonight it's his brother George who
stopped by after a day in the parts store
and is ready to pitch in
nick has been wrenching on engines with
his brothers since before the ink was
dry on his first driver's license
he's got more room in his shop now than
he did back in the basement of the
family home but this is still what he
loves doing best.
This is really old school.
this is backyard style with the key.
no ratchet, no air tools, nothing.
it's time consuming, but you know what, it still
get's the job done.   back in the early seventies,
this is what we did.
Pretty soon, Nick has got the aluminum intake off and his
hunch would seem to be confirmed the
runners are measurably larger on the
original cast iron part.
here we go, we will start with the edelbrock.
it's a snug fit fits in pretty snug
tight and now we're going to go to the
cast iron and here we go we see almost an
eighth of an inch that's on the width.
let's try it over here same thing now let's
go back to edelbrock here we go
snug tight, snug tight.  now let's try
overall height here we go
now go for the edelbrock, see that...
Now, we go here again we have almost an
eighth  of a  gap as you can see
we might get our goal, ten HP.
Might put us in the 400 range.
It's promising, but Nick knows that
there's lots more to getting horsepower
than one quick measurement he's going to
have to dyno test to see if his theory
holds water so the next morning
he's got Vasilis bolting on the
freshly cleaned original cast iron
intake manifold
Nick wants me to put the holley carburetor
on that intake,
That intake was designed for a Rochester carburetor
which has a square bore flange
you see, the the bolt patterns are not the same
it's a little bit off there so we're going to need an adapter
it is the weekend, so everything is closed.
we can't order one, but I know exactly where i can find one.
so we can make the engine run today.
this 72 cuda has got a late 440 in it now
he can borrow the part he needs while this
car is in the shop in order a new one on monday
the 440s came with the spread bore intake
and that's the adapter plate so we
can put from spread bore to square bore.
in the oldsmobile, so we can use our holley carburetor.
that should  work
Nick doesn't like the apparent
restriction this chunk of iron in the
middle of the intake might cause but
he's not willing to start carving up an
original piece just yet so he leaves it
as it is for the purposes of the test
Here I am,  I got the cast iron intake manifold
installed and ready to make a test and i
hope we make that 400  horsepower and
then let's get started and see what we can do.
Nick wants to make a few pulls, dial in
the air-fuel ratio and find out what
he's making with this setup
we need to richen the carburetor. ok we're going to go up 2 jets.
you want it in  the 12s?
Yeah, I want mid 12s, high 12's at full throttle.
at 13.5 it's running too lean.
Let's richen it out Vasilis,  change the jets, go ahead.
this olds 350 has seen a lot more
testing than the average motor that Nick
puts on his dyno... but he doesn't mind a bit.
As long as  I got the energy and my health,
I could do it,  and I will do it, forever
why not, I enjoy this...This is what I love.
between 12 and 12.9..  A little richer? go up...
2 jets, so it can go down in the middle.  two more up, yeah.
12 and a half to 13... thats good.
let's see what we got.
did it change anything?
384 back there again.  That motor is stuck at 384-385
it's not the result Nick was hoping for
but this is why he keeps the dyno in his shop
so you can do real tests and get real answers
if this was his own motor, he'd  keep
trying but it belongs to a client and
the client has already said that he's
happy with the other set-up.
here we are , we overlapped our two tests cast iron vs edelbrock.
the dotted line is the edelbrock manifold.
we did that before... vs that cast iron
we put on today is a solid line so what
you see here is that the edelbrock
is the way to go
the aftermarket intake does seem to be
wider open up top and Nick would love to
try modifying the original to see if he
could get more air and fuel to the
cylinders but it's the client who's
calling the shots on this engine and
this is as far as he wants to go... for now
a few days later the 350 is still on the
dyno this time with the edelbrock
performer intake back on
it's being started up for one more pull
and there's quite the audience here to
see and hear for themselves
Nick's client Tony and three generations
of his family are celebrating the
rebirth of the motor for a car that
means a lot to all of them
that's the thing about what Nick does...
he doesn't just build engines... he's building
people's dreams
and this dream isn't over yet
you know Nick isn't going to be happy
until he gets 400 horses out of the
rocket v8
when he does you'll be along for the
ride